Add approaches for leap (#653)
exercism/bash: exercises/practice/leap/.approaches/external-tools/content.md

# External Tools

> Calling external tools is a natural way to solve problems in bash: call out to a specialized tool, capture the output, and process it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling external tools is a natural way to solve problems in Bash: call out to a specialized tool, capture the output, and process it.
```

Using GNU `date` to find the date of the day after February 28:

```bash
year=$1
next_day=$(date -d "$year-02-28 + 1 day" '+%d')
if [[ $next_day == "29" ]]; then
    echo true
else
    echo false
fi
```

Or, more concise but less readable:

```bash
[[ $(date -d "$1-02-28 + 1 day" '+%d') == "29" ]] \
    && echo true \
    || echo false
```

Working with external tools like this is what shells were built to do.

From a performance perspective, it takes more work (than builtin addition) to:

> * copy the environment and spawn a child process
> * connect the standard I/O channels
> * wait for the process to complete and capture the exit status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* copy the environment and spawn a child process,
* connect the standard I/O channels,
* wait for the process to complete and capture the exit status.
```

# External Tools

> Calling external tools is a natural way to solve problems in bash:

Reviewer 2: Lines 3, 4 should be joined.

I've always encouraged people to avoid forking when shoving solving bash scripts.

call out to a specialized tool, capture the output, and process it.

> Using GNU date to find the date of the day after February 28:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using GNU `date` to find the date of the day after February 28:
```

```bash
year=$1
next_day=$(date -d "$year-02-28 + 1 day" '+%d')

> if [[ $next_day == "29" ]]; then

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason 29 is quoted but the command substitution isn't quoted?

Author: Variable assignments are not subject to word splitting or filename expansion.
Quoting the RHS is a habit to make the pattern a literal string.
In your opinion should the quotes be removed?

Reviewer 2: I have a weak preference to remove it. If we wanted to quote all strings that could be expanded if they had glob chars, then `echo true` should be `"echo" "true"`. If `echo true` doesn't need quoting, then I don't see why `29` needs quoting.

If you have a strong preference to always quote the RHS of `==` then that's fine, too.

Author: Good point.

    echo true
else
    echo false
fi
```

Or, more concise but less readable:

```bash
[[ $(date -d "$1-02-28 + 1 day" '+%d') == "29" ]] \
    && echo true \
    || echo false
```

> Working with external tools like this is really what shells were built to do.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Working with external tools like this is what shells were built to do.
```

From a performance perspective, it takes more work (than builtin addition) to:

> * spawn a child process (including copying the environment)

Reviewer 2: spawn, connect, wait

Or

spawning, connecting, waiting

> * connecting the standart I/O channels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* connecting the standard I/O channels
```

* waiting for the process to complete, capturing the exit status.

> Particularly inside of a loop, you want to be careful about invoking external tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Particularly inside of a loop, be careful about invoking external tools as the cost can add up.
```

> over-reliance on external tools can take a job from completing in seconds to completing in minutes (or worse).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over-reliance on external tools can take a job from completing in seconds to completing in minutes (or worse).
```

~~~~exercism/caution
Take care about using parts of dates in shell arithmetic.
For example, we can get the day of the month:

```bash
day=$(date -d "$some_date" '+%d')
next_day=$((day + 1))
```

That looks innocent, but if `$some_date` is `2024-02-08`, then:

```bash
$ some_date='2024-02-08'
$ day=$(date -d "$some_date" '+%d')
$ next_day=$((day + 1))
bash: 08: value too great for base (error token is "08")
```

> bash treats numbers starting with zero as octal, and `8` is not a valid octal digit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bash treats numbers starting with zero as octal, and `8` is not a valid octal digit.
```

> Workarounds include using `%_d` or `%-d` to avoid the leading zero, or specify base-10 in the arithmetic 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workarounds include using `%_d` or `%-d` to avoid the leading zero, or specify base-10 in the arithmetic.
```

```bash

> next_day=$(( 10#$day + 1 ))

Reviewer 2: In contrast to the prior comment about not needing $ inside ((, it actually is needed here. That might be worth calling out.
